As a small little quirk of history,
it seems like you're related to Jordan Peterson.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> like you mentioned, he's going through some rough stuff.
Now, is there some common you can make about the,
the roughness of the human journey, ups and downs? Well.
I, I became a expert in, uh, benzo withdrawal, like,
which is you took benzo aspens.
And at some point they interact with GABA circuits,
you know, to reduce anxiety and do a hundred other things.
Like there's actually no known list of everything they do.
Cause they interact with so many parts of your body. I,
and then once you're on 'em you habituate to them and you're you're you have a
dependency. It's not like you're a drug dependency. You're trying to get high.
It's a, it's a metabolic dependency.
And then if you discontinue them,
there's a funny thing called kindling,
which is if you stop them and then go, you know,
you have a horrible withdrawal symptoms.
And if you go back on them at the same level, you won't be stable.
And that unfortunately happened to.
Him like,
because it's so deeply integrated into all the kinds of systems in the body, it.
Literally changes the size of numbers of neurotransmitter sites in your brain.
Yeah. So there's a,
there's a process called the Ashton protocol where you taper it down slowly over
two years to people go through that, go through unbelievable hell.
And what Jordan went through seemed to be worse because he on advice of doctors,
you know, well, stop taking these and take this. It was disaster. And he,
he got some, yeah, it was pretty tough. Um,
he seems to be doing quite a bit better intellectually.
You can see his brain clicking back together. I spent a lot of time with,
I've never seen anybody suffer so much.
Well, his brain is also like this powerhouse, right?
So I wonder does a brain that's able to think deeply about
the world, suffer more through these kinds of withdrawals. Like.
I don't know. I've, I've watched videos of people going through withdrawal.
They all seem to suffer unbelievably.
And you know,
my heart goes out to everybody and there's some funny math about this.
Some doctors said as best you can tell, you know,
there's the standard recommendations don't take 'em for more than months.
And then taper over a couple of weeks. Many doctors prescribe 'em endlessly,
which is again the protocol, but it's common, right?
And then something like 75% of people when they taper it, it's, you know,
half the people have difficulty, but 75% get off. Okay.
20% have severe difficulty and 5% have life threatening difficulty.
And if you're one of those, it's really bad.
And the stories that people have on this is heartbreaking and,
and tough. So.
You put some of the fault that the doctors that just not know what the hell
they're doing. Oh.
No, it's hard to say it's,
it's one of those commonly prescribed things like one doctor said,
what happens is if you're prescribed them for a reason,
and then you have a hard time getting off the protocol basically says,
you're either crazy or dependent and you get kind of pushed into
a different treatment regime.
You're a drug drug addict or a psychiatric patient. And so,
so like one doctor said, you know,
I prescribed 'em for 10 years thinking I was helping my patients.
And I realized I was really harming them. And you know, the,
the awareness of that is slowly coming up. Um, the,
the fact that they're casually prescribed to people is horrible
and it's bloody scary. And some people are stable on 'em,
but they're on 'em for life. Like once you, you know,
it's another one of those drugs that,
but benzo's long range have real impacts on your personality.
People talk about the benzo bubble,
where you get disassociated from reality in your friends a little bit it's it's,
it's, it's really.
Terrible. The mind is terrifying. We're talking about how a,
how the infinite possibility of fun <laugh>,
but like it's the infinite possibility of suffering too,
which is one of the dangers of, uh, like expansion of the human mind.
It's like,
I wonder if all the possible hum experiences that it intelligent computer
can have, is it mostly fun or is it suffering?
So like, if you, if you, uh, brute force expand
the set of possibilities, like,
are you going to run into some trouble in terms of like torture and suffering
and so on,
maybe our human brain is just protecting us from much more possible pain and
suffering,
maybe the space of pain it's like much larger than we could possibly imagine.
And that.
The world's in a balance, you know, all the,
all the literature on religion and stuff is, you know,
the struggle between court good and evil is, is balance for very finely tuned,
for reasons that are complicated, but that's all,
that's a long philosophical conversation.